now hundreds of students have been
arrested at universities across the
United States as protests grow over
Israel's war on Gaza they're demanding
educational institutions divest in
companies they say are complicit in
genocide Let's cross over to Teresa B
joining us from Columbia University in
New York and Theresa it does seem that
there is a message now from the
University president to the
students well that's correct we're right
Columbia University we're not allowed to
go inside mostly because only ID holders
are allowed to do so there's lots of
security out here there's hundreds of
students that remain inside in this
sitting an encampment saying that they
want to shed light on the war on Gaza to
what is happening on Gaza they want
universities to stop investments in
companies that profit from the war on
Gaza and those are their demands what
has Happening Here in Colombia
University has inspired many
universities across the country
currently on the edge on how to respond
to the student protest that are
happening across the country calling law
enforcement suspending students among
other things there's been negotiations
ongoing between the students and the
university we after two weeks uh that
hundreds of protesters at least 100
protesters were detained uh and and we
hear now that the president of Columbia
University has issued a statement there
they're saying that the University
trying to resolve this issue in a
peaceful manner they also want to
guarantee for example freedom of speech
but at the same time allow Jewish
students in the university to feel at
ease in this current University she also
mentions in this statement that the
university won't divest from Israel
however what she's also saying is that
they're open for new suggestions uh and
to discuss other possibilities on
divestment matters investment matters of
Columbia
University we're also being told Al
jazer has been told that the students
that remain inside have been told that
they need to abandon the sitting by 2:
p.m. local time that's about uh in a 3
hours time here it's not clear what will
happen then some of them believe that
they could be suspended we do not know
what is going to happen but what
students are saying is that they have
the right to Civil Disobedience this is
a long history it's a long history in US
University of doing something like this
back in the 1960s during the Vietnam war
and that's why students here are saying
that they'll remain where they are and
of course Teresa you know the scenes
behind you right there seem pretty calm
right now but I was wondering you
sometimes can get a sense of the mood of
the people not just going into the
university but around you as you've sort
of been Milling around uh what is that
sense well I've been in New York for a
day I have to tell you and I've been
going around on several universities
across the city you go downtown for
example there's students there again
shedding light on the war on Gaza asking
universities to stop Investments on
companies that uh do not that are
related to what is happening or
profiting to what is happening in Gaza
there's a mood with many students
outside saying and asking for people to
join in to join in into shedding light
to what is happening currently on the
Gaza Street people are walking as you
can see very peacefully here as
journalists are not allowed to go into
the campus right now we believe that
we'll be allowed to do so later on we've
seen people some people here wearing a
cafe as you can see just outside the
university but we're also hearing that
the students that are inside this
University are calling for assistance
again they do not know what is going to
happen at 2m local time they do not know
whether the police will be called in
whether they'll be suspended but what is
certain is that they're saying that
they'll remain where they are they
believe in their purpose they believe
that the war on Gaza needs to end and
we'll be here reporting on what happens
next of course we'll check in with you
as time progresses Theresa boa for us in
New York Let's cross over now to shab
Brans he's at George Washington
University in DC and sheab the capital
police very careful in the way they've
been handling the student protests Where
You Are
it's fascinating because it's the it's
the university administrators the
supposed Guardians of the young minds in
in the under their tutelage who are
trying to get the police to clear this
encampment out and it's the police who
are saying no they don't want the Optics
of of violently removing peaceful
peaceful protesters and it is very
peaceful the idea that this is a threat
to anyone as bizarre it's a very
well-appointed encampment now it has
facilities for food and there's a
library you perhaps even hear a
violinist who's serenading us with a
selection of chamber music but now we
have this new installation behind us
let's get Leela Lea one of the
protesters here to explain this is an
amazingly symbolic achievement here but
what is what's going on here where where
did all these barriers come from hi
thank you so much so it began last night
we had a peaceful cultural Showcase in
which members of the community families
children the elderly were gathered
together to share stories from their
culture and songs when all of a sudden
the police began to violently arrest
someone who was inside the camp they
clim this individual had jumped the
fence but it was clear this individual
had been inside the camp for over 80
hours and we always say here we keep us
safe so the community rallied together
to protect this individual to prevent
this wrongful violent arrest and to
prevent any police brutality the
individual was able to go free
afterwards the barricades were then
removed and placed in the center because
these barricades have been a threat to
the health and the safety of the
students from day one George Washington
University allowed these barricades to
be erected to prevent students from
being able to access running water from
being able to use the bathroom and to
prevent Medics from being allowed in we
have women inside who were on their
periods for these 4 days with no access
to running water we had people inside
who were sick who were injured who were
disabled but the police with their
barricades prevented Medics from getting
through putting the lives of students
from across Georgetown George Washington
University American University Gat
University and Howard University in
danger now that the barricades have been
removed individuals have been able to
access running water in order to take
care of their health and their safety we
have had Medics being able to come in
and to give students checkups to make
sure they are healthy and this goes to
show that we are prepared to stay for as
long as possible so the administrators
are they still threatening you though
with um with removal suspension because
as far as they are concerned this is an
unsafe environment and it's making
Jewish students in particular
uncomfortable I can't help notice your
T-shirt oh yeah I mean I think these
anti-Semitism accusations are just a
baseless and racist character ation of
what the Palestinian Liberation movement
has been fighting for myself I've been
offered kosher for Passover food we've
had rabbis come in and also if we want
to talk about attacks against religious
groups we should absolutely be having
this conversation but we should be
talking about the mosques and the
churches inside of Gaza that have been
bombed often times with individuals
peacefully Sheltering inside you knowk
thank you thank you so much and so yes I
think perhaps Elliot maybe you can focus
once again on this Remar remarkable
symbol of the power of the students here
in in Washington DC back to you thanks
very much she Shey there for us in
Washington DC Let's cross over to Phil
lvll who's at MIT in Cambridge
Massachusetts and Phil what's the mood
like
there well there's a lot of uh
protesting going on and we we remember
this is Boston Massachusetts there are a
number of universities there are a lot
of protests I mean we've had
over the last week two of them have been
closed down nor Eastern and Emerson
College both of those we saw the police
brought in 100 people at each side
arrested uh and those protests closed
down now we've got this one at MIT this
one has been going on for more than a
week we understand that students are now
in active negotiations with the
university bosses uh but you've also got
protests at the world famous Harvard
University a few miles away that one is
behind locked Gates nobody is on site
unless they have a Harvard University
pass and uh the police chief there has
said you know what I am not going to go
on site and arrest people because the
university wants me to do that I'm only
going to get involved if there is
violence or there is damage to property
but the University at the Harvard
University is saying to these students
you may face disciplinary action
including not getting your degrees and
then we've got tough University where we
are told that at some point today the
process of ending that encampment will
begin well that mean will that mean that
the police are involved will it mean
more negotiations we don't know but
obviously we're watching that one very
closely but bringing it back here to MIT
I've got with me Zeno who's one of the
protesters here now you've got a really
interesting perspective here because you
were actually arrested at Emerson
College and now you're here like how
what happened there absolutely yes I'm
Zeno I'm a grad student uh an organizer
for The Graduate students for Palestine
um so what happened is Emerson is one of
our sibling colleges we organize we all
all of the colleges in this local area
in Boston and Cambridge we work in sink
and Tandem and so we launched our
encampment over a week ago Sunday night
with Emerson and tus and so we've been
in close contact with those at Emerson
and so we support each other when we
need each other and Emerson gave us a
call the other night I was working I was
kind of overseeing a night a night shift
and doing night watch about 11: at night
I got a call that hey Emerson needs help
they called in the state troopers so
myself and about 10 other MIT students
at this in campus took a couple uh uh
lifts and Ubers and we went over to
Emerson which is across the bridge on
the Boston side now Emerson set up an
encampment in an alley and there's two
sides to that alley and so one side of
the alley they were saying was more
higher risk cuz the cops were collecting
on that side of the alley so I had the
MIT on the more moderate risk side
basically doing a support rally where
there were no cops a few counter
protesters but no cops so myself and a
few other the uh like uh cheer and rally
leads we started taking over the mega
phone and doing um you know uh free free
Palestine basic our our kind of a our
cheer uh choreograph and everything was
good we had some folks locking arms on
that side of the alley but again no cop
presence and then all of a sudden all
the state troopers pulled up with all of
their uh Vans uh to load us up in and um
we all got quiet because we had a cop
liaison that cop liaison approached the
lead cop the lead cop came out there and
he said I don't care what your prep
testing about I don't I'm not on any
side I'm neutral but you have to leave
because there's fire code violations uh
you're disturbing the peace etc etc at
that point in time our cop liaison
turned around to our cheerlead at the
time and said continue the cheers and he
lifted up the megaphone and the cop was
about 5T away from him and he said free
free Palestine straight to the cop and I
pissed all the cops off and they rushed
us and they started slamming us to the
ground all we' got to watch the language
cuz we're live on uh apologies um so he
they started slamming us against the
wall slamming us on the ground many
injuries um myself I was slammed against
a brick wall I was standing on a public
sidewalk um I I was slammed and we were
just linked arms with the uh rest of our
friends and students there he piced they
were picking and choosing who to arrest
they chose me slam me against the um the
brick wall behind me put my hands behind
my back and then lifted up my arms real
high and I'm telling the guy hey I have
a connective tissue disorder and he
didn't he didn't care he just kept
lifting up my arms slammed me on the
ground and then arrested me okay thanks
for giving your account really
appreciate it and as you can see the
police are on site they're keeping a
distance but as of course we don't know
how this will develop over the coming
hours Phil Val for us in Cambridge at
Massachusetts at MIT thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer